refactor smart account methods (#150)
bcnmy/docs: docs/Account/methods.md

---
title: Methods
---

> The SDK provides the following methods for a smart account.

Reviewer: following API
or
following API methods

## BiconomySmartAccountV2
### Create

> The `create()` method is used to create an instance of the Biconomy Smart Account V2. This method takes a configuration object and returns the smart account instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `create()` method is used to create an instance of the Biconomy Smart Account V2. This method requires a smart account configuration object to be passed and returns the smart account instance.
```

Reviewer: returns Smart Account API instance

> The `create()` method is used to create an instance of the Biconomy Smart Account V2. This method takes a configuration object and returns the smart account instance.

Reviewer: under create you can mention that this is not a multi chain instance. to use smart account on another chain you need to instantiate another smart account API instance with configuration of that chain.

The addresses of ERC-4337 smart accounts follow a deterministic pattern. This enables you to get the address off-chain before the account is actually deployed.

**Usage**

```jsx
let provider = new ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider("rpcUrl");
let signer = new ethers.Wallet("private key", provider);

const smartAccount = await BiconomySmartAccountV2.create({
  signer: signer,
  chainId: ChainId.POLYGON_MUMBAI, // Specify the desired chain (e.g., Polygon Mumbai)
  bundlerUrl: "", // bundler URL (required)

>   biconomyPaymasterApiKey: "", // Instance of the paymaster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  biconomyPaymasterApiKey: "", // Biconomy Paymaster API Key
```

});

```

**Parameters**

*required params are explicitly mentioned*

- config (`object`, required): A `BiconomySmartAccountV2Config` object containing configuration options for creating the smart account.

>   - signer(`Signer`, required): The signer instance that will need to be passed. 

Reviewer: I don't think signer is required. 
If this includes 3.1.2 then @VGabriel45 can help you with conditional props and overall content on what is required and reason behind that. 

like... if defaultValidationModule is not provided we will attach instance of ECDSAValidationModule created using provided EOA signer.

Reviewer 2: <img width="1033" alt="Screenshot 2024-01-04 at 20 09 56" src="https://github.com/bcnmy/docs/assets/56271768/55200632-415f-402d-adc2-3f413d4040a4">

Here is how the new types should be. signer is required as long as defaultValidationModule is not passed, it is either one or another.

  - chainId (`ChainId` enum, required): The identifier for the blockchain network. (e.g., ChainId.POLYGON_MUMBAI).
  - bundlerUrl (`string`, required) OR bundler (`IBundler`, required) : bundler url which will be internally used to create bundler instance or the bundler instance. Bundler instance can also be used if one wants to customise the bundler. Refer to bundler [integration](./../Bundler/integration.mdx) for more details on bundler.

>   - biconomyPaymasterApiKey(`string`) OR paymaster (`IPaymaster`): one can either pass paymaster API key or the paymaster instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - biconomyPaymasterApiKey(`string`) OR paymaster (`IPaymaster`): one can either pass paymaster API key or custom  paymaster instance.
```

  - entryPointAddress (`string`): default entry point address will be used if not passed, otherwise the passed address will be used.

>   - defaultValidationModule (`BaseValidationModule`): The default validation module to start with ( ECDSA ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - defaultValidationModule (`BaseValidationModule`): The default validation module used to detect address of the smart account and deploy if not deployed
```

Reviewer: doesn't necessarily have to be ECDSA.

>   - activeValidationModule (`BaseValidationModule`): The active validation module to start with ( either ECDSA or Multi-chain ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - activeValidationModule (`BaseValidationModule`): run-time validation module (must be one of enabled validation modules) to sign and validate next userOp.
```

  - rpcUrl (`string`): RPC URL of the chain

>   - index (`number`): index to create multiple smart accounts for an EOA

Reviewer: if it is required mention required. but if it's optional then also mention optional
if conditional then properly mention

**Returns**

> - `smartAccount` (`object`): An instance of the Biconomy Smart Account V2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `smartAccount` (`BiconomySmartAccountV2`): An instance of the Biconomy Smart Account V2.
```

:::info

> Building on Chiliz Mainnet or the Spicy Testnet? Note that the entry point address on this is different as it was deployed by us on the Biconomy team. The address of the entry point is : [0x00000061FEfce24A79343c27127435286BB7A4E1](https://scan.chiliz.com/address/0x00000061FEfce24A79343c27127435286BB7A4E1/contracts#address-tabs)

Reviewer: we sould mention this near where we are passing entryPointAddress as DEFAULT_ENTRY_POINT_ADDRESS

:::

## Smart Account Get Methods

### getAccountAddress( )

This method is used to retrieve the account address associated with the `smartAccount` instance.

**Usage**

```jsx
const address = await smartAccount.getAccountAddress();
```

**Returns**

- address (`Promise<string>`): A Promise resolving to the account address associated with the smartAccount instance.

### getNonce( )

This method is used to retrieve the nonce associated with the `smartAccount` instance.

**Usage**

```jsx

const nonce = await smartAccount.getNonce();
console.log(nonce.toNumber());
```
**Parameters**

> - nonceKey(`number`): one can also pass the optional parameter nonceKey in the case of two-dimensional nonces

Reviewer: there is no example of how to pass nonceKey

it's usually, 

const nonceKey = 10;
const nonce = await biconomySmartAccount.getNonce(nonceKey);

**Returns**

> - address (`Promise<BigNumber>`): A Promise resolving to BigNumber indicating the nonce of the smart account.

Reviewer: let's use simple language
do not use words like indicating and associated with if not necessary

> - address (`Promise<BigNumber>`): A Promise resolving to BigNumber indicating the nonce of the smart account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- address (`Promise<BigNumber>`): A Promise resolving to current nonce of the smart account.
```

> ### index

Reviewer: I think index is unnecessary

This is used to retrieve the index of the current active smart account.

**Usage**
```jsx
const index = smartAccount.index;
```

**Returns**
- index (`number`): A number indicating the index of current active smart account.

## UserOp Methods

### buildUserOp( )

> This method is used for configuring and setting up all properties of the `userOp` object.  It involves preparing and populating the userOp with necessary information and parameters required for execution by bundler.

Reviewer: not all properties really.
it would not have signature
it could have paymasterAndData populated at this point in very limited use case of sponsorship pm for Biconomy.

There is no mention of batching.

Should be simple like converts a traditional transaction or batch of transactions into a partial user operation. 

Can also mention individual fields of userOp that gets populated.. initCode, sender, nonce, maxFeePerGas, maxPriorityFeePerGas, callGasLimit, verificationGasLimit, preVerificationGas [ As this step also involves internally estimating gas for the userOp ]

**Usage**

> For example, in the context of creating a userOp for an `addComment` transaction, an instance of the contract is created, then a basic transaction object is created that holds the necessary address and data from the transaction. Finally, a userOp is created using the Smart Account's `buildUserOp` method⁠.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the context of creating an user operation for an `addComment` transaction, an instance of the contract is created, then a basic transaction object is created that holds the necessary address and data for the transaction. Then, a partial userOp is built using the Smart Account's `buildUserOp` method⁠. Now this can be signed and sent to the bundler.
```

```jsx
const contractAddress = "contract address";
const provider = new ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider("rpc url");

const blogContract = new ethers.Contract(
  contractAddress,
  abi, // contract abi
  provider,
);

const createComment =
  await blogContract.populateTransaction.addComment("comment");

const tx1 = {
  to: contractAddress,
  data: createComment.data,
};

const userOp = await smartAccount.buildUserOp([tx1]);
```

**Parameters**

> - transactions (`Transaction[]`, required): The required argument  is an array of transactions. You can pass multiple transactions into a userOp if you would like to batch them together into one transaction.

Reviewer: Add they will be executed atomically in provided order.

- buildUseropDto (`BuildUserOpOptions`): One can also pass these options to customize how a userOp is built.

  ```ts
  type BuildUserOpOptions = {
    overrides?: Overrides;
    skipBundlerGasEstimation?: boolean;
    params?: ModuleInfo;
    nonceOptions?: NonceOptions; 
    forceEncodeForBatch?: boolean;
    paymasterServiceData?: SponsorUserOperationDto;
  }
  ```
  Let's look at each of these params:

>   1. overrides (`Overrides`): one can override any of the values of the userOp when it is being constructed.

Reviewer: This does not work the way it is explained. 
In the code if you notice it is only overridden for estimate gas request to the bundler.

Reviewer: ![Uploading Screenshot 2024-01-03 at 10.24.50 PM.png…]()

Author: cant see the screenshot

Reviewer: ![Uploading Screenshot 2024-01-03 at 10.24.50 PM.png…]()

Reviewer: https://imgur.com/a/gCG6nC3

Reviewer: like the overrides would only be used for input to the bundler to do the gas estimations (eth_estimateUserOpGas call) and returned values from the bundler will be used (so these don't act as direct overrides)

but before signing userop or before sending to paymaster service one can directly replace gas limits in partial userop if need to

      ```ts
      type BigNumberish = BigNumber | Bytes | bigint | string | number;

      type Overrides = {
        callGasLimit?: BigNumberish;
        verificationGasLimit?: BigNumberish;
        preVerificationGas?: BigNumberish;
        maxFeePerGas?: BigNumberish;
        maxPriorityFeePerGas?: BigNumberish;
        paymasterData?: string;

>         signature?: string; // todo - add the definition

Reviewer: todo is pending

      }
      ```

>   2. skipBundlerGasEstimation (`boolean`): This boolean param can be set to false to skip some Gas Estimations on the bundler which can help with reducing latency on requests.

Reviewer: need more information on this. @AmanRaj1608 can you help draft this please

Reviewer 3: **skipBundlerGasEstimation (boolean)**: This parameter allows you to manage gas estimations more efficiently depending on the nature of your transactions. By default, it's set to true, which means if a paymaster is present, gas estimations are done on the paymaster side to facilitate gasless transactions. Here's how you should configure it based on your use case:

1. Gasless Paymaster Flow (All Methods Gasless on Dashboard): If you are utilizing a gasless transaction with all methods set as gasless on the dashboard, you should pass the skipBundlerGasEstimation as true. This is typically the default behavior, emphasizing that the gas estimations are handled by the paymaster. Here's how you can configure it:

```js
let partialUserOp = await biconomySmartAccount.buildUserOp([transaction], {
  paymasterServiceData: {
    mode: PaymasterMode.SPONSORED,
  },
  // No need to explicitly set skipBundlerGasEstimation: true, as it's true by default for paymaster flow
});
```
2. Mixed or Non-Gasless Transactions: In scenarios where you have mixed transactions (some are gasless and some are not) or all transactions are not gasless, it's more efficient to estimate gas using the bundler first. After building the user operation, you should then call getPaymasterAndData to finalize the gas parameters. Set skipBundlerGasEstimation as false to ensure the bundler handles the initial gas estimations:

```js
// When not all methods are gasless or you want to use bundler estimations
let userOp = await biconomySmartAccount.buildUserOp([transaction], {
  skipBundlerGasEstimation: false, // Explicitly set to false to use bundler for initial gas estimations
});
// ...After building user operation, proceed to get Paymaster and Data as needed
```

By configuring skipBundlerGasEstimation appropriately, you ensure that your transactions are processed efficiently and in accordance with the intended gas handling approach, whether through a gasless paymaster flow or via bundler estimations.

Author: what does user optimise on by getting the gas calculations done by paymaster vs bundler?

Reviewer: so generally you build partial user op , use the bundler to do gas estimations
paymasterAndData (we ll call it pnd from now on) is not populated yet
then generally you can paymaster to get paymasterAndData.

at this time paymaster services could / should do gas estimations again cause using paymaster impacts gas values

so the idea is if you are sure you’re going to use sponsored mode with paymaster, and since paymaster service can do estimations… in this case instead of bundler make paymaster call with calculateGasLimits: true (default behavior) and get gas estimations + pnd also

improves on multiple calls and latency in this particular case

>   3. params (`ModuleInfo`): One can use this param to pass session validation module parameters. Refer to the tutorial to learn more about the session keys.

Reviewer: This is useful to generate dummy signature when a complex module is being used which requires more information.

      ```ts
      type ModuleInfo = {
        sessionID?: string;
        sessionSigner?: Signer;
        sessionValidationModule?: string;
        additionalSessionData?: string;
        batchSessionParams?: SessionParams[];
      }
      ```

>   4. nonceOptions(`NonceOptions`) : this can be used to execute multiple transactions in parallel. One can implement their own logic for nonce management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. nonceOptions(`NonceOptions`) : this can be used to execute multiple user operations in parallel for the same smart account.
```

      ```ts
      type NonceOptions = {
        nonceKey?: number;
        nonceOverride?: number;
      };
      // nonceOptions usage
      let i = 0;
      const userOp = await smartAccount.buildUserOp([tx1], {
        nonceOptions: { nonceKey: i++ },
      });
      ```

>       Nonce can be initialised at any arbitrary number and incremented as one builds transactions. The nonceKey will create a batch or space in which the nonce can safely increment without colliding with other transactions. The nonceOverride will directly override the nonce and should only be if you know the order in which you are sending the userOps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nonceKey can be initialised at any arbitrary number and incremented as one builds user operations to be sent in parallel. The nonceKey will create a batch or space in which the nonce can safely increment without colliding with other transactions. The nonceOverride will directly override the nonce and should only be used if you know the order in which you are sending the userOps.
```

>   5. forceEncodeForBatch (`boolean`): 

Reviewer: When you provide array of transactions, by default Biconomy sdk encode it for executeBatch() executor function and execute() function for single transaction. But in some cases you might want to encode single transaction for a batch if your custom module decodes only for executeBatch. 
You can provide this flag to true in such case. default behaviour: false

>   6. paymasterServiceData (`SponsorUserOperationDto`): The `paymasterServiceData` includes details about the kind of sponsorship and payment token. It contains information about the paymaster service, which is used to calculate the `paymasterAndData` field in the user operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  6. paymasterServiceData (`SponsorUserOperationDto`): The `paymasterServiceData` includes details about the kind of sponsorship and payment token in case mode is ERC20. It contains information about the paymaster service, which is used to calculate the `paymasterAndData` field in the user operation. Note that this is only applicable if you're using Biconomy paymaster.
```

      ```ts
      type SponsorUserOperationDto = {
        mode: PaymasterMode;

>         calculateGasLimits?: boolean; // Add info

Reviewer: Add info is pending

Author: @AmanRaj1608 please provide details here as well

Reviewer 3: It indicates whether the paymaster should perform gas limit calculations for the user operation. When set to true, the paymaster  calculate the gas limits for the vgl, pvg, cgl. It defaults to true, signifying the paymaster will undertake gas limit calculations to ensure efficient operation execution

Author: and how is it different from skipBundlerGasEstimation

Reviewer: This is specific to Biconomy paymaster service.

skipBundlerGasEstimation has very different purpose explained as above specific to bundler.

calculateGasLimits (default behaviour : true) when sent to paymaster paymaster will also re estimate the gas limits.

        expiryDuration?: number;
        webhookData?: {
            [key: string]: any;
        };
        smartAccountInfo?: SmartAccountData;
        feeTokenAddress?: string;
      }
      ```
      It also contains optional fields such as `webhookData` and `smartAccountInfo`.
  

**Returns**

> - partialUserOp (`Promise<Partial<UserOperation>>`): A Promise resolving to `partialUserOp` which can be further sent for execution⁠.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- partialUserOp (`Promise<Partial<UserOperation>>`): A Promise resolving to `partialUserOp` which can be further signed and sent to the bundler.
```

### senduserOp( )

> This method is used to submit a User Operation object to the User Operation pool of the client. It signs the UserOperation using an externally owned account (EOA) key and submits it to the bundler for on-chain processing. 

Reviewer: not always using an externally owned account (EOA) key

Reviewer: signs the useroperation with the help of instance of active validation module.

dev -> smartAccount.sendUserop -> smartAccount.signUserOp -> activeValidationModule.signUserOp

Author: could you explain more on signing with the instance of active VM

Reviewer: it happens internally. 
check this 
https://github.com/bcnmy/biconomy-client-sdk/blob/main/packages/account/src/BiconomySmartAccountV2.ts#L355

https://github.com/bcnmy/biconomy-client-sdk/blob/main/packages/account/src/BiconomySmartAccountV2.ts#L372

Reviewer: my suggestion from now on keep a copy of client sdk repo open and try to trace API methods etc when you don't understand something. we can also do a KT session on sdk walkthrough

**Usage**

```ts
const userOpResponse = await smartAccount.sendUserOp(userOp);

type UserOpResponse = {
  userOpHash: string;
  wait(_confirmations?: number): Promise<UserOpReceipt>;
  waitForTxHash(): Promise<UserOpStatus>;
};

const { receipt } = await userOpResponse.wait(1);

type UserOpReceipt = {
  userOpHash: string;
  entryPoint: string;
  sender: string;
  nonce: number;
  paymaster: string;
  actualGasCost: BigNumber;
  actualGasUsed: BigNumber;
  success: boolean;
  reason: string;
  logs: Array<ethers.providers.Log>;
  receipt: ethers.providers.TransactionReceipt;
};
```

**Parameters**

> - userOp (`Partial<UserOperation>`, required): The `userOp` object includes essential fields like `sender`, `nonce`, `callData`, `gas` related properties.

Reviewer: gas fee and gas limit values.

> - params (`SendUserOpParams`): The `SendUserOpParams` object can contain fields such as `sessionID`, `sessionSigner`, `sessionValidationModule`, `additionalSessionData`, `batchSessionParams`, and `simulationType`. These parameters are used to customize the behavior of the `sendUserOp` method and are optional. 

Reviewer: are used when your active validation module is complex and requires additional information for signature generation.

  ```ts
  const userOpResponse = await moduleSmartAccount?.sendUserOp(userOp, {
    sessionSigner: sessionSigner,
    sessionValidationModule: moduleAddr,
  });
  ```
  Similar to building a `userOp` we need to ensure that any modules used for additional validation or execution logic are specified in the `sendUserOp` method. Currently, this only applies for session key module requirements.

:::note
Please note that `simulationType` allows for more debugging insights about `callData` on why an internal transaction fails. It is set to "validation" by default, but can be changed to "validation_and_execution" for more detailed tracing.
:::

**Returns**
- userOpsResponse (`UserOpResponse`): The method returns an object of type `UserOpResponse` which has a `userOpHash` and two methods: `wait()` and `waitForTxHash()`.
The `wait()` method resolves when the user operation is dispatched by the bundler on-chain and gets mined. The `waitForTxHash()` method returns a `UserOpStatus` object which includes the transaction hash and the receipt once added on-chain.

### sendSignedUserOp( )

> This method is designed to handle user operations that have already been signed. These signed operations are sent directly to the bundler for on-chain processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is designed to dispatch signed user operations to the bundler.
```

> This method is particularly useful when handling operations that have been grouped together with a multi-chain module, as it allows for the submission of these combined operations in a single request.

Reviewer: It can also be useful when you have two different instances of smart account for example one instance of the backend just to build userOp, another instance to get it signed on front end and then dispatch signed userOp using backend instance.

**Usage**
```ts
const userOpResponse = await smartAccount.sendSignedUserOp(userOp)
```
:::note
Please ensure that the user operations have been correctly signed before using this method⁠
:::
**Parameters**
- userOp (`UserOperation`, required): The `userOp` object includes essential fields like `sender`, `nonce`, `callData`, `gas` related properties, and `signature`.

> - params (`SendUserOpParams`): The `SendUserOpParams` object can contain fields such as `sessionID`, `sessionSigner`, `sessionValidationModule`, `additionalSessionData`, `batchSessionParams`, and `simulationType`. These parameters are used to customize the behavior of the `sendUserOp` method and are optional. 

Reviewer: I think only simulationType is relevant here because we won't be using the rest. since userOp is already signed we don't need to send it to module for signing hence additional params won't be needed. that will confuse the users

@VGabriel45 we can later replace the type with something else. currently it is shared with params type of sendUserOp only

Author: should I remove the params from here?

Reviewer 2: @livingrockrises "we can later replace the type with something else. currently it is shared with params type of sendUserOp only" can you elaborate on this ? Maybe on Slack if you don't want to extend the chat here.

Reviewer: explained on slack

  entryPointAddress: DEFAULT_ENTRYPOINT_ADDRESS, // Entry point address for the specified chain (required)
  defaultValidationModule: ownerShipModule, // Choose either ECDSA or Multi-chain as the default validation module (required)
  activeValidationModule: ownerShipModule, // Choose either ECDSA or Multi-chain as the active validation module to start 
});

```

**Parameters**

*required params are explicitly mentioned*

- config (`object`, required): A `BiconomySmartAccountV2Config` object containing configuration options for creating the smart account.
  - chainId (`ChainId` enum, required): The identifier for the blockchain network. (e.g., ChainId.POLYGON_MUMBAI).
  - bundler (`IBundler`): An instance of the bundler.
  - paymaster (`IPaymaster`): An instance of the paymaster.
  - entryPointAddress (`string`, required): The entry point address for the specified chain.
  - defaultValidationModule (`BaseValidationModule`, required): The default validation module to start with ( either ECDSA or Multi-chain ).
  - activeValidationModule (`BaseValidationModule`): The active validation module to start with ( either ECDSA or Multi-chain ).

>   - rpcUrl (`string`): rpc url of the chain

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - rpcUrl (`string`): RPC URL of the chain
```
